hey guys what's up and welcome back to
the small edits channel
today we are talking about intuitive
eating versus tracking macros
versus tracking calories what they are
and
the pros and cons of each and which one
would be best
for you to start with based on your
goals inside
my program for petite women called the
petit power program it's our 12-week
transformation program for petite women
we teach both intuitive eating and
tracking macros
never calories only because that's not
helpful and i'll go into why
and a lot of times women will come into
the program
and say april and team where
should i start should i do intuitive
eating should i do macros
like what's best for me and we always
help them figure out where they should
start
based on their goals and what they
their history as well and then we give
them our
small edicts method for both macros or
intuitive eating and
most of the time anyone who starts with
macros will transition eventually to an
intuitive eating i'd say 100 of the time
because nobody's tracking for their
whole life
so let's get into it i think this is
a video that i wish that i had seen
for petite women specifically years ago
when i was trying to figure out
first of all why when i was intuitively
eating i wasn't getting results
and second of all when i finally started
macros why i also wasn't getting results
and just like want to give you guys a
shortcut so i'm going to chat with you
guys
and give you guys my opinion based on my
certifications but also my experience
helping thousands of petite women
navigate all of this crazy nutrition
stuff portions
and hopefully by the end of the video
you will know which is right for you
if any of them are right for you okay so
let's briefly
just really quickly start with
definitions of the three of them at
least i'm gonna say these are really
loose definitions because there's a lot
of
stuff and noise and whatever especially
around intuitive eating
there's a lot of different takes on it
and definitions of it so
we'll just go with the hardest one first
intuitive eating
let's just say intuitive eating is when
you eat
normal i really don't like that word
because what is normal
but it's the simplest easiest way that
we can kind of talk about it right now
if i'm just you know
being really casual about it you're just
going about your day
eating food that looks good to you right
that's what
you could call intuitive eating however
you know if you're doing a more
structured intuitive eating it's
actually a lot harder
to follow than that and we'll get into
that okay next
macronutrients what are macronutrients
what is counting your macros hitting
your macros mean
it's looking at the composition of your
diet so calories are made up of
fats proteins and carbohydrates so
instead of counting the number of
calories you consume in a day
you're looking at the number of grams of
macronutrients
that make up those calories in a day so
for example you might have 120 grams of
protein per day
that could be a target if you are eating
um
if you're 120 pound female and you're
eating one gram
of protein per pound of body weight you
might eat 120 grams of protein per day
and if you multiply that out you'll get
a number for the calories so
i think the biggest thing i didn't
understand when i first got into this
years ago was
macronutrients and calories are almost
the same thing macronutrients make up
your calories
but if you just count your calories you
could eat
1500 calories of carbs and fats and
not get the protein that you need or the
vitamins
or the minerals that you need to build
muscle and lose fat
so what i love about macronutrients and
we'll go into like pros and cons and
everything but with macronutrients
you're looking at the composition of
your diet the nutritional breakdown
you're learning what's in your food and
you're looking and tracking
not just the total number of calories
you're eating in a day that's
not what you're looking at you're
looking at what's the ratio
of fats to protein to carbohydrates that
i'm eating in a day
to make sure i'm fueling my body and
going to feel good and getting the
nutrients i need so
those are very loose definitions of the
three of them now i think a better
question also is not which is best
intuitive eating
or tracking macros it's really which is
best for you
right now because you could
be in a position where tracking macros
would be best for you now
but not in the future and vice versa
and it's really not about what's best
period there's different approaches here
and that's why
we do teach both of course we have an
approach for both that is
geared towards petite women that i'll
share with you today but i just want you
to know
there is no perfect right way there's no
one way that it's going to get you to
your destination it's really about
thinking about what do
i need what's going to be best for me
and so i really want you today to just
think about that as we're going over the
prison cottons
what feels good for you okay so for our
pros and cons we have a pretty extensive
list i wrote out for you guys
and we're not going to go over counting
calories because like i just told you i
don't believe in counting calories i
think it's a waste of your time
it's not going to help you improve your
composition of your nutrition or feel
good or
necessarily lose weight you could end up
losing a lot of precious much
muscle tissue counting calories but not
looking at the composition of your diet
so i'm going to just say this i don't
believe in counting calories i don't
think it will help you at all
it's better if you want to track
something to look at your macros
and if you don't want to look at
something obviously to intuitively eat
but we'll go into that
so okay so macronutrients pros
first of all it's a great educational
educational tool you're going to learn
what a protein is what an example of a
fat is a healthy fat what an example of
a carbohydrate is and you're going to
start to be able to look at food
and know okay that's a protein that's a
carbohydrate that's a fat
and of course it's not going to happen
overnight it's going to take some time
as you are getting used to tracking and
seeing how my fitness pal or the my
macros app categorizes it for you
but it's almost like holding a bar a bar
scanner to you know like the world and
seeing
okay this is what i'm putting my body so
off of that tracking your macros even if
it's just for a few days can be an
amazing education tool for learning
about your food
another awesome pro with macros is it
gives you a starting point so if you
have
never tracked before you have no idea
what you're eating
you don't even know how many calories
you're eating in a day and you want to
learn more about your food
and your caloric intake and you want to
maybe lose some fat maybe gain muscle
have a body recomp
macros will give you a really nice
starting place so that you can
see where you're at and then make
adjustments to get towards your goal
the most common thing i see with petite
women women in general actually is
they're under eating protein by a lot
they'll find out that they're short of
their protein goal by quite a bit
so it gives you this amazing starting
place and also
when you compare it to what you're
naturally doing that's not getting you
results you can see very
you know concretely okay here's the
little adjustments i can make in
the composition of my nutrition that is
going to help me get
closer to my goal and it's like for me
at least it's a very it feels very
concrete it's not like guessing what you
should eat for the day it's like oh okay
i need more protein i'll eat more
protein another pro
is it can really help you learn your
correct
portions for you based on your goal and
as a petite woman i find this is really
key
because we are so used to eating
what other people's portions are because
we're not you know most
people aren't as short as us and they're
eating big plates of food i know my
boyfriend
who's six four if i ate what he was
eating every night i would not
be able to reach my goals and i would
also feel sick to my stomach because
it's so much food right he's eating like
4 000 calories a day
so having your macronutrients is going
to teach you your portions
for yourself as a petite woman that are
appropriate for you which is an awesome
learning experience another pro of
macros is it teaches you how to eat
foods you
love in moderation and have balance
so let me give you an example of this
back when i was
in college as a college girl i was so
healthy i
ate like i stayed steered clear of like
snickers and all the quote-unquote bad
foods i labeled foods i did all the bad
stuff
i had food guilt i binge ate and i
restricted foods like crazy i did not
touch
unhealthy foods and it wasn't until i
learned
that oh i can have these things i just
can't have
a lot of them you know you don't want
them to make up 50 of your diet right
you won't feel good that i started to
learn oh there is a place for
every food in my diet i don't have to
restrict entire food groups just because
i don't know
how much is going to hurt me i can have
a little bit and still achieve my goals
so
macros can teach you how to have your
cake and eat it too in a way because you
can see
okay well if i have a you know a goal
for fats today
i can see that you know a snickers bar
will make up
x percent of my goal so here's how i can
fit it in or maybe i have a smaller
portion or
whatever you know it depends the
variables depend on your goals but
this personally helped me a lot with
understanding okay i can have these
foods
and still meet my goals and what ended
up happening is either be more
consistent with my
nutrition because i was eating foods i
was not restricting foods at all and
you guys have probably experienced this
when you restrict a food
for a while you want it more and more
and more and then you end up
binge eating it later so i kind of
stopped having those binges
because i learned how to just eat the
foods that i loved but in moderation
in a way that fit my overall goal for
the day
and then the other pros i would say it
really helps you
learn a process versus an unprocessed
food
again that's sort of like number one
with just you learn what a protein fat
and a carb is and then it also helps you
understand what's actually in your foods
so
a lot of times we call chicken a protein
right the chicken also has fat a little
bit of fat in it it has
foods to have a combination of all the
macros but you'll learn what the
what foods that have the majority of so
like cheese is another example it has a
lot of fat we call it a fat but cheese
she says love protein
too because it's dairy so you learn
a lot about food i think that's the
biggest thing it's a it's an awesome
learning experience okay let's get in
the cons of macros because of course
there are cons to be considered here
of course so first of all i'm gonna say
flat out
i do not recommend that you start
tracking macros if you have a history of
disorder
eating or you feel very triggered by
numbers
if you know that you get obsessive with
numbers and it leads you down
this bad road don't track your macros
it's just you don't need to you don't
need to
it's going to be just stress that you
don't need and
instead i would as a coach
want to help you get to the bottom of
why those are triggering you
do that inner work because they're just
numbers
that we put stories and narratives on to
right
the number on the scale it doesn't know
what weight we should be it doesn't know
what we look
like or how tall we are if i step on the
scale as a 5
1 woman and i'm 115 pounds
it doesn't know versus if my boyfriend
gary steps on the scale and he's 220
you know it's not going to call anyone
any names but it's ourselves
that call ourselves horrible things so
really if you're triggered by numbers
and everything
i wouldn't ever advise you to count
macros and force anything you should
really just
get quiet and figure out okay why am i
so stressed by these numbers
um that would be what i would suggest
another con of tracking macros is when
you're first getting started i would say
the first
week to two weeks i'd say the first week
it is time consuming
because you have food scale and you have
a new app
and you're learning it's stuff you don't
know yet so i mean it's like anything if
you took if you wouldn't if you went and
took a course
in school you wouldn't expect to know it
all in a day right you have a whole
semester and i think the expectation in
health and fitness is like
we want it fast you know like we want it
tomorrow we want to wake up and
transform and it's it's like you have to
set the expectation that
it's a learning curve it's going to take
some time that was my little
graph of a learning curve it's going to
take some time to learn
about food and that's just
that could be a con for some people who
just don't aren't interested or don't
want to take the time to learn about it
another con of macros is it's kind of
hard to track
when you eat out at a restaurant you
have to kind of already know and already
had experience
tracking for a little bit for a few
weeks to be able to go out to a
restaurant and
look at your food and say oh that's 150
grams of chicken
and about 50 grams of quinoa you have to
like kind of know and then it gets even
more complex if you're tracking
a recipe that has a ton of stuff in it
and you can't really see what the
ingredients are
and that's so if you're eating out all
the time
macros are going to be really hard to do
accurately it's best for
homemade foods or just simpler foods
in general but of course if you're
eating out that often that also could
just be a small adjustment you can make
if you're looking to have a body become
to just eat out fewer times per week
but it's up to you and your lifestyle
goals as well
and the last con i have here is just
that it's not meant
to be a lifestyle now i know we see on
instagram i know
you guys see me tracking my macros in
the long term
at this point everyone is different you
can't compare where you are to where i
am i
enjoy tracking macros and it's very easy
for me because i've been doing it for so
long
and i don't track it 100 every single
day that would be absolutely crazy
i go eat out at restaurants and whatever
but i'm just saying
a con of macros is that it's not a
lifestyle it cannot be done for years
and years and years
and it's not meant to be sustainable in
that way it's really meant to be like a
crash course in understanding food so
i'll just put that in the comment box
okay let's do the pros and cons of
intuitive eating and then at the end
we'll talk about
figuring out okay which is right for you
okay intuitive eating
the pros the obvious pro is that there's
less emphasis on numbers
which can be triggering triggering and
if there's
less stress in general around food
hopefully you can make healthier choices
and it's not as overwhelming and
you know maybe you can that leaves room
mentally for you to go to sleep earlier
or hit your workouts
and you just feel better without the
numbers that's
a huge pro another one is that after
you've learned it and you've got the
hang of it it is very sustainable
because like i said you can just go on
with your life
and continue to see results and
you don't have to weigh things or track
or count or anything like that so it's a
really sustainable method
along with the other two pros i have
here you can learn balance
what that means for you on an individual
level and
then the last one is that you could just
feel really in tune with your body so
once you have a really good feel for you
know your appetite you under your
appetite and your absolute hormones are
in a good place and i'll talk about what
that means
you understand that you you might eat
more on days that you train and eat less
on days that you don't because your
appetite fluctuates and just you could
just get in that really good rhythm of
like
okay i feel like i'm giving my body what
it needs and i'm listening to it and i
i stop eating when i'm full i honor my
hunger
and you can get into that like really
great relationship with food
okay the cons intuitive eating is a much
harder than tracking macros
it has a much steeper learning curve for
a lot of reasons
which we're going to go into so the
first one here
and this is another con that we'll put
on the list if you've
never tracked your calories you have no
idea what you're eating you don't know
that much about
food if you try to go into intuitive
eating
you could be severely under eating or
you could be eating in a surplus and
overeating
and you wouldn't know because you've
never been in that
place with food where you know for sure
your body's getting what it needs
and here's the second con or the third
con at this point
if you have been under eating for a long
time your metabolism slows and adjusts
to that lower point
and now your appetite hormones are not
normal they're not where they should be
that's also going to change and you're
not going to be as hungry you're going
to have a lower appetite
and the same thing and go for if you've
been overeating for a while
your body can adjust to that and you can
start to have
be hungry all the time and your hunger
hormones are also not the best
leader for you of when you should eat or
when you're full
this is why intuitive eating is so much
harder than macros for
the person who has never kind of looked
at their
done a food journal before or tracked
what they ate for three days that's a
food journal
because you have nothing to base it off
of right it's like it's like you're
eating normal but if
say i just said start eating intuitive
tomorrow
what would you do differently tomorrow
that you're not doing right now right
there's no learning because it's you
don't know
it's um it's sort of like a weird a lot
of times it seems like it's going to be
easier but it's not for this reason
because you're missing out on that
education step
and you can't get into harmony with your
body
if your appetite hormones are off
if you have been chronically restricting
and chronically dieting or
yo-yo dieting on and off on and off or
doing tons of cardio for a long time
your body has adapted because we are
masters at adapting and surviving and
it's not going to be giving you that
input that leads you towards your goals
it's not going to be giving you
telling you that to be hungry in the
morning if you've been practicing
intermittent fasting for years you're
not going to get hungry in the morning
you're going to have to
kind of reprogram your body to have
hunger and have those cues be
right for you so that's why intuitive
eating can be really
hard to start out from if you have no
experience
tracking at all okay so this brings us
to like our flow chart of
where what's right for you i would say
if you have
never tracked anything before and you're
not opposed to it
this is what i would recommend for most
people eighty percent of fatigued women
go ahead and keep a three-day food
journal and just see what you ate
try to keep it in the my macros plus app
or
myfitnesspal so that it can break down
for you what is the protein fat and carb
rather than on a piece of paper it can
give you that data
and it can show you how much protein
you're eating how much carbs how much
fat and that'll
already give you a lot of information
about your own diet and what you
what foods you tend to gravitate towards
so off the back
if you if you have never tried tracking
or anything
go ahead give it a try if you've never
tried tracking
but you are very very very worried about
the numbers
i would also say if you've never tried
it you've never had a history of
disordered eating
still go ahead and try it if you have a
history of disordered eating numbers
trigger you you
have trapped in the path and it has gone
poorly i would not track
just you don't need to track macros it's
not it's not going to get you better
results it's really just a learning
experience so
i would then just go to intuitive eating
but start
learning the principles of what i call
pff this is our intuitive eating
measure or approach protein fats and
fibrous carbs this is how you build your
plate so that you're always eating a
balanced meal
and you can use your hands as your tool
to guide your portions
so it's a this is actually a really
great tool you can use
uh just use your palm for your portions
and because your palm is proportionate
to your body
it's usually a pretty good judgment of
what you should be having in a meal so
for example
your protein would be about a palm
about three ounces three to four ounces
of protein you're gonna have a palm
and for your fibrous carbs you can use a
scoot
hand for your healthy fats about a
thumb's worth
so from the base of thumb up to top not
just the top the whole thing
um thumbs worth and
for your yeah that's it
for your bff and just using your hand as
a tool to guide your intuitive eating
with this is great because you don't
have to look at numbers but you can
still get an idea of portions
and you can still kind of learn about
the difference
the different food groups that you're
incorporating in your meals
if you've been tracking for a really
long time and you're really sick of
numbers i would also suggest you just
switch to intuitive eating start to
transition
more and at that point you will have
probably
done a great job training your eye for
what portions you need that's how i am
now i know exactly i can
pretty much guess by looking at you know
what
the weight of that food is or just what
i need in terms of what my portions look
like so if you've been tracking for a
while
i would encourage you to switch over to
intuitive and start to make that
transition and get more comfortable
trusting your body and getting
in tune with those hunger hormones which
you've now established in
regular intervals and you're in a good
place with at the end of the day whether
you're tracking macros or you're doing
intuitive eating
you're still eating pff which is our
approach
to having a healthy metabolism staying
in fat burning mode and
gaining lean muscle mass having that
body recomposition so
they're not that different it's just one
has has
you know a lot of education packed into
it and the other one is just going to
make you free up some mental space
if it's triggering for you and whatever
you choose i fully support you i teach
both
i do not think one is better than the
other other like i said one is better
for you
at this time and that's how we teach it
in the petite power program
i hope you guys loved this video and
learned a lot about it let me know in
the comments if you've ever tried
tracking macros or intuitive eating
before which one you currently do i
would love to hear
what you think the pros and cons are if
you agree with me
let's just chat about it in the comments
and i also want to let you know that
the petite power program is opening
again in october we only open it a few
times a year based on
how many people we can coach at once we
try to keep it really intimate
we have dietitians accountability
coaches macro coaches myself
and this badass community of petite
women and
we are opening up the doors again in
october so if you want to get on the
wait list
check it out below you can sign up it's
no commitment to get on the waitlist
you'll just be the first to be notified
and you'll be able to hop in and join
the october round of petite power then
all right you guys if you like this
video please give it a like and
subscribe for more content taylor to
petite women and i will see you guys
next week
bye
[Music]
you